Document MsTeams access plugin (#15941)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/access-request-plugins/ssh-approval-msteams.mdx

---
title: Access Requests with MsTeams
description: How to set up Teleport's MsTeams plugin for privilege elevation approvals.
---

This guide will explain how to set up MsTeams to receive Access Request messages
from Teleport. Teleport's MsTeams integration notifies individuals of
Access Requests. Users can then approve and deny Access Requests by following the
message link, making it easier to implement security best practices without
compromising productivity.

## Prerequisites

(!/docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A MsTeams License (Microsoft 365 Business)
- Azure console access in the organization/directory paying the Office 365 Licenses (MsTeams licences)
- An Azure Resource Group in the same directory, that will host the access-request plugin resources.

>   You should have enough permissions to create and edit Bot services in this Resource Group.

Author: I have no idea, cloud permissions can be granted in a lot of different fashions and scopes, the only test to do would be trying to create one

- Someone with Global Admin rights on the Azure Active Directory that will approve
  the bot application permissions
- Someone with the `Teams administrator` role that will approve the MsTeams

>   application installation request

Author: done

  within the system's `PATH`, e.g., `/usr/local/bin`:

  ```code 
  $ mv ./build/teleport-msteams /usr/local/bin
  ```

</TabItem> 
</Tabs>

  Make sure the binary is installed:

  ```code
  $ teleport-msteams version
  teleport-msteams v(=teleport.plugin.version=) git:teleport-msteams-v(=teleport.plugin.version=)-fffffffff go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

## Step 3/9. Create a user and role for the plugin

(!docs/pages/includes/plugins/rbac.mdx!)

## Step 4/9. Export the access plugin identity

(!docs/pages/includes/plugins/identity-export.mdx!)

The rest of this guide assumes that you have placed any files generated by this
command into `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams` for later reference when
configuring the plugin:

```code
# create a data directory to hold certificate files for the plugin.
$ sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams
$ sudo mv auth.* /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams
```

## Step 5/9. Register an Azure Bot

The Access Request plugin for MsTeams receives Access Request events from the
Teleport Auth Service, formats them into MsTeams messages, and sends them to the
MsTeams API to post them in your workspace. For this to work, you must register a

> new Azure Bot.

Author: Done

> new Azure Bot.

Author: Done

> ### Register a new Azure bot

Author: Done

Visit [https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.AzureBot](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.AzureBot)

> to create a new bot. Choose the bot handle (this is for semantic use only, it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create a new bot. Choose the bot handle so you can find the bot later in the Azure console (the bot handle will
```

not be displayed to the user or used in configuration), the Azure subscription,
the resource group and the bot pricing tier.

In the "Microsoft App ID" section choose "Single Tenant" and "Create new
Microsoft App ID".

![Create Azure Bot](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/create-azure-bot.png)

### Connect the bot to MsTeams

> Once the bot is created, open the resource and go the the "Channels" tab. Click

Author: Rephrased

"Microsoft Teams" and add the MsTeams channel.

The result should be as follows:

![Add Bot Channel](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/add-bot-channel.png)

### Recover the bot app ID and the directory tenant ID

> On the bot's "Configuration" tab, recover the values of "Microsoft App ID" and "App Tenant ID".

Author: Done

Those two UUIDs will be used in the plugin configuration.

> ### Create a client secret

Author: Done

The client secret will be used by the Teleport plugin to authenticate as the bot's app when
searching users and posting messages.

> On the bot's "Configuration" tab, find "Microsoft App ID", click "Manage" link next to it.

Author: Done

![Manage Bot App](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/manage-bot-app.png)

Then, go to the "Certificates & Secrets" section, choose to create a "New client secret".

> Use the "Copy" icon to recover the newly created secret and keep it with the

Author: done

previously recovered App ID and Tenant ID.

### Specify the permissions used by the app

> Still in the app management view ("Configuration", then "Manage" the Microsoft App ID),

Author: done

go to the "API permissions" tab.

Add the following Microsoft Graph Application permissions:

> - `AppCatalog.Read.All` (used to list Teams app and check the app is installed)

Author: Done

- `User.Read.All` (used to get notification recipients)
- `TeamsAppInstallation.ReadWriteSelfForUser.All` (used to initiate communication with
   a user that never interacted with the Teams app before)
- `TeamsAppInstallation.ReadWriteSelfForTeam.All` (used to discover if the app is installed
   in the Team)

![Specify App Permissions](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/specify-app-permissions.png)

At this point the app declares the required permissions but those have not been granted.

> If you are admin, click "Grant admin consent for \<directory name\>". If you are not admin,

Author: done

contact an admin user to grant the permissions.

Once permissions have been approved, refresh the page and check the approval status.
The result should be as follows:

![Granted App Permissions](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/granted-app-permissions.png)

## Step 6/9. Configure the Teleport MsTeams plugin

> At this point, the Teleport MsTeams plugin has the credentials it needs to

Author: Yes, I rephrased the next sentence to try to make it clearer

communicate with your Teleport cluster and Azure APIs, but the app has not been
installed to MsTeams yet. In this step, you will configure the MsTeams plugin

> to use the Azure credentials and generate the MsTeams app package. You will

Author: Added sentence describing the package purpose

also configure the plugin to notify the right MsTeams users when it receives an
Access Request update.

### Generate a config file and assets

The Teleport MsTeams plugin uses a config file in TOML format.
The `configure` subcommand generates a directory containing the TOML
configuration file and a `app.zip` file that will be used later to
add the MsTeams application into the organization catalog.

The command will create the directory `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets`
(might require root/sudo):

```code

> $ teleport-msteams configure /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets --appID <Microsoft App ID value> --tenantID <App Tenant ID value> --appSecret <password value saved on step #4>

Author: Done

```

This should result in a config file like the one below:

```toml
(!examples/resources/plugins/teleport-msteams.toml!)
```

> Recover the `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets/app.zip` file,

Author: done

    
Set `addr` to the address and port of your Auth Service. This address must be
reachable from the Teleport MsTeams Plugin.

Set `client_key`, `client_crt`, and `root_cas` to the identity files
generated earlier:

```toml
[teleport]
addr = "localhost:3025"
client_key = "/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/auth.key" # Teleport GRPC client secret key
client_crt = "/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/auth.crt" # Teleport GRPC client certificate
root_cas = "/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/auth.cas"   # Teleport cluster CA certs
```
</TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Connect to the Proxy Service">

Set `addr` to  your Proxy Service address with port `443`.

Set `identity` to the identity file generated earlier:

```toml
[teleport]
addr = "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
identity = "/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/auth.pem"
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope="cloud">

Set `addr` to  your Teleport Cloud tenant address with port `443`.

Set `identity` to the identity file generated earlier:

```toml
[teleport]
addr = "mytenant.teleport.sh:443"
identity = "/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/auth.pem"
```

</ScopedBlock>
 
**`[role_to_recipients]`**

> The `role_to_recipients` map configure the teams users and channels that the

Author: ```suggestion
The `role_to_recipients` map configure the users, and channels that the
```

a MsTeams user or a channel URL.

A channel URL can be recovered by opening the channel, and clicking the button
"Get link to channel":

![Copy Teams Channel](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/copy-teams-channel.png)

The `role_to_recipients` map must also include an entry for `"*"`, which the
plugin looks up if no other entry matches a given role name. In the example
above, requests for roles aside from `dev` and `dba` will notify `alice@example.com`.

<Details title="Suggested reviewers">

Users can suggest reviewers when they create an Access Request, e.g.,:

```code
$ tsh request create --roles=dbadmin --reviewers=alice@example.com,ivan@example.com
```

If an Access Request includes suggested reviewers, the MsTeams plugin will add
these to the list of channels to notify. If a suggested reviewer is an email
address, the plugin will look up the the direct message channel for that
address and post a message in that channel.

</Details>

Configure the MsTeams plugin to notify you when a user requests the `editor` role
by adding the following to your `role_to_recipients` config (replace
`TELEPORT_USERNAME` with the email of the user you assigned the `editor-reviewer`

> role earlier, and ):

Author: fixed

---
title: Access Requests with Microsoft Teams
description: How to set up Teleport's MsTeams plugin for privilege elevation approvals.
---

> This guide will explain how to set up MsTeams to receive Access Request messages

Author: Done

from Teleport. Teleport's MsTeams integration notifies individuals of
Access Requests. Users can then approve and deny Access Requests by following the
message link, making it easier to implement security best practices without
compromising productivity.

## Prerequisites

(!/docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A Microsoft Teams License (Microsoft 365 Business)
- Azure console access in the organization/directory paying the Office 365 Licenses (MsTeams licences)
- An Azure resource group in the same directory. This will  host resources for the the Microsoft Teams Access Request plugin.
  You should have enough permissions to create and edit Azure Bot Services in this resource group.
- Someone with Global Admin rights on the Azure Active Directory that will

>   grant permissions to the plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  grant permissions to the plugin.
```

(!docs/pages/includes/plugins/rbac.mdx!)

## Step 4/9. Export the access plugin identity

(!docs/pages/includes/plugins/identity-export.mdx!)

The rest of this guide assumes that you have placed any files generated by this
command into `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams` for later reference when
configuring the plugin:

```code
# create a data directory to hold certificate files for the plugin.
$ sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams
$ sudo mv auth.* /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams
```

## Step 5/9. Register an Azure Bot

The Access Request plugin for MsTeams receives Access Request events from the
Teleport Auth Service, formats them into MsTeams messages, and sends them to the
MsTeams API to post them in your workspace. For this to work, you must register a
new Azure Bot. Azure Bot is a managed service by Microsoft that allows to
develop bots that interact with users through different channels, including
Microsoft Teams.

### Register a new Azure bot

Visit [https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.AzureBot](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.AzureBot)
to create a new bot. Choose the bot handle (this is for semantic use only, it will

> not be displayed to the user or used in configuration), the Azure subscription,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not be displayed to the user or used to configure the Microsoft Teams plugin). Also edit the Azure subscription,
```

the resource group and the bot pricing tier.

In the "Microsoft App ID" section choose "Single Tenant" and "Create new
Microsoft App ID".

![Create Azure Bot](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/create-azure-bot.png)

### Connect the bot to MsTeams

> Once the bot is created, open its resource page on the azure console and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the bot is created, open its resource page on the Azure console and
```

navigate to the "Channels" tab. Click "Microsoft Teams" and add the MsTeams
channel.

The result should be as follows:

![Add Bot Channel](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/add-bot-channel.png)

> ### Recover the bot app ID, tenant ID and create a client secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Obtain information about your Microsoft App
```
Suggesting a more general heading

| `TeamsAppInstallation.ReadWriteSelfForUser.All` | Used to initiate communication with a user that never interacted with the Teams App before. |
| `TeamsAppInstallation.ReadWriteSelfForTeam.All` | Used to discover if the app is installed in the Team. |

At this point the app declares the required permissions but those have not been granted.

If you are an admin, click "Grant admin consent for \<directory name\>". If you are not an admin,
contact an admin user to grant the permissions.

![Specify App Permissions](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/specify-app-permissions.png)

Once permissions have been approved, refresh the page and check the approval status.
The result should be as follows:

![Granted App Permissions](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/msteams/granted-app-permissions.png)

## Step 6/9. Configure the Teleport MsTeams plugin

At this point, the Teleport MsTeams plugin has the credentials it needs to
communicate with your Teleport cluster and Azure APIs, but the app has not been
installed to MsTeams yet.

In this step, you will configure the MsTeams plugin to use the Azure
credentials and generate the Teams App package that will be used to install the

> Teams App to your teams instance. You will also configure the plugin to notify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Teams App. You will also configure the plugin to notify
```

the right MsTeams users when it receives an Access Request update.

### Generate a config file and assets

The Teleport MsTeams plugin uses a config file in TOML format.  The `configure`
subcommand generates the directory `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets`
containing the TOML configuration file and an `app.zip` file that will be used
later to add the Teams App into the organization catalog.

```code
$ export AZURE_APPID="your-appid"
$ export AZURE_TENANTID="your-tenantid"
$ export AZURE_APPSECRET="your-appsecret"
$ teleport-msteams configure /var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets --appID "$AZURE_APPID" --tenantID "$AZURE_TENANTID" --appSecret "$AZURE_APPSECRET"
```

This should result in a config file like the one below:

```toml
(!examples/resources/plugins/teleport-msteams.toml!)
```

Copy the `/var/lib/teleport/plugins/msteams/assets/app.zip` file to your local

> computer, you will have to upload it to MsTeams later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
computer. You will have to upload it to Microsoft Teams later.
```
